# Gamefriend
My CS50 final project and first NLP app

Gamefriend is a simple database query system focused on storage and retrieval of video game information. Gamefriend utilizes Microsoft’s free LUIS api. LUIS is a natural language processor with the ability to extract intents and entities from simple phrases. In this context, intent regards the purpose or goal of a question and entity means the objects, subjects or focus of the request. Gamefriend can identify 5 different types of intents. It can recognize requests for a game’s summary, playing population, price, console availability and the game’s maker. Gamefriend uses entities to both identify the game being looked up and confirm the existence of a current entity (such as game developer/console).

To use Gamefriend, run base.py with a Python 3 script. From there it will ask you what your question is. You can ask questions such as “What do you think of tetris?”, “How many people play tetris?”. “Is tetris on xbox?”, “Did nintnedo make tetris?”, or “how many people play tetris?”. Because Gamefriend uses NLP to identify asking intent, you can ask variations of these questions driving at the same answer. For example, you can ask “What do you think of tetris?” or “What is your opinion of tetris?” and receive the same answer. As of right now, the MYSQL database is fairly empty that holds all of the video game information so feel free to add to it as you see fit. One can also type change when prompted at the script to make edits to the MYSQL database without opening the file. If Gamefriend has never heard of the game you mention, it will ask you if you want to add the game information into the database. Lastly, errors may occur, usually when the Microsoft LUIS api has never seen a certain type of question occur. After being exposed to this question, I can go into my LUIS account, retrain the application and republish it to get Gamefriend to understand the question. If you want to build a Gamefriend NLP api like mine, see the JSON file also in my repository. Reach out if you have any questions.
